Workshop rules and safety considerations
Workshop safety is everyone's responsibility and the following rules have been put in place to ensure the safety of all students and staff.
Please read the safety rules carefully before entering the workshop.

Workshop rules
Student affected by drugs or alcohol are not permitted in the workshop.
Students with any health problems that may affect workplace safety (e.g. medication, epileptic fits) must report these conditions to the workshop staff.
Please notify the workshop staff on your arrival.
No food or drink is allowed in the workshop.
Wear the correct protective equipment for the tools you are using – ask if in doubt.
All chemicals (e.g. glues and paints) must be checked through Chemwatch and with workshop staff before use.
Immediately notify the workshop supervisor of any faulty or broken equipment.
Please ask how to use the tools safely.
Make sure your work piece is fixed securely before work commences.
Keep leads up off the floor.
Keep clear of any person operating tools and machinery (bumping an operator or get tangled in the lead could cause serious injury to you or the operator).
Do not talk to anyone operating electrical equipment and machinery.
Keep your work area tidy.
Clean up any spills immediately.
Wash hands after using equipment and materials.
Ensure your safety in the workshop
Safety glasses must be worn at all times when in the workshop.

Clothing and footwear
Safety glasses – every person entering the workshop must collect these from just inside the door. They must be worn at all times.
If you wear glasses you should be aware these are not safety glasses (they are only impact resistant and may shatter) so, therefore, safety glasses must be worn.
All loose clothing (e.g. shirts hanging out) must be tucked in.
Safety boots or enclosed shoes must be worn in the workshop. Do not enter under any circumstances without this footwear – there are no exceptions to this rule.
Remove rings and loose jewellery before operating machinery as they can be a hazard.
Machinery usage
When students are operating machinery, all other students are to stay clear and not to talk to the operator. If you feel uneasy or unsafe operating any tools or machinery in the workshop, inform the workshop supervisor and help will be provided.

Machinery that students are not allowed to operate includes:

drop saws
Sac panel bench saw
thicknesser
bench rip saw
lathes
pressure testing machine
C.N. router
circular saws
laser.
Tools to be used only under strict supervision include router and trimmer. All other tools may be used by students as long as they have been inducted into the workshop and been tested in their capability to use them.

Records are kept as to which tools each student can operate.
Students are not permitted in the office of the workshop
If tools are required, please ask the work supervisor.
When exiting the workshop
Check that any tools you have been using have been put away in the appropriate spots, clean up your work area and notify the workshop staff.

Behaviour
Fooling around and practical jokes in the workshop will not be tolerated – students will be told to leave.

First aid
All accidents, cuts and abrasions must be reported before leaving the workshop. If an accident does happen, no matter how small, it must be reported to the workshop staff and an accident report form completed. Filling out this form is imperative for any future complications resulting from an accident.

Fires or other emergencies
Think before reacting to any emergency in the workshop to ensure you are reacting safely, before you assist in an emergency. Do not attempt to fight any fire unless you have been trained to do so.
